

Cool Fact : Some believe that the government studies time travel at Area 51, also known as Groom Lake or Dreamland.

The government has developed advanced aircraft and weapons systems at nearby Nellis Air Force Base, including Stealth bombers and reconnaissance planes. And the government's official line — that the details of Area 51 are classified for purposes of national security — is only seen as further proof that the military is hiding aliens or alien spacecraft.

Facts : 
A military base owned by US gov and operated by US Air force
Pupose : To test and develop experimental weapons and aircraft
Actual name :  Air Force Flight Test Center – Detachment 3
High Survellance and strictly restricted area, the airspace around Area 51 is restricted too. 


Other names : 
Paradise Ranch, Dreamland, Groom Lake, Home Base, Watertown Strip amd Homey airport, R-4808N, the container, the box.

Secrecy is the main intriguing factor for Area 51.
Misterious lights are seen over Area 51 which are generally due to new technology in experiment.


Conspiracy theorists believe that the remains of crashed UFO spacecrafts are stored at Area 51, an Air Force base about 150 miles from Las Vegas, where government scientists reverse-engineer the aliens' highly advanced technology.
Thats where they innovated the Stealth fighter and Kevlar (Images)

Actual use of Area 51 :
During World War 2 : used as artillery and bombing practice then abandoned until 1955
1955 : Lockheed decided to use the area as test facility for U-2 spy plane
1962: First Oxcart was made by Lockheed
1977: Blue stealth fighter prototype was finalized and took flight which led to F-117 stealth fighters in 4 years


Series of Events leading to conspiracy 


Other conspiracies  many conspiracy theories focused on the area though, some of the many theories include:
1. The use of the base by the government to develop a means of weather control.
2. The use of the base by the government to develop time travel technology.
3. The use of the base by the government to develop teleportation technology.
4. The storage of and reverse engineering of alien UFO’s.
5. The examination of living and dead extraterrestrials recovered from crashed UFO’s.
6. Collaboration of the U.S. government with extraterrestrial beings.
7. The use of the base to create and support a one world government.
8. The creation of advanced energy weapons
9. Genetic engineering of human – extra-terrestrial hybrids utilizing alien specimens recovered from the area.
10. The creation and expansion of camouflage and chameleon technology that disappears to the human eye.
11. The development of an underground railroad that runs across the continent.
 
fun facts about area 51
1. It was called Paradise Ranch to make it attractice for construction worker
2. It has serveillance camera and motion sensors, commoflaged patrol
3. There is a sci-fi brothel near it where clients dress as Darth Rader and spend night with Lady storm trooper
4. US finally acknowledgesd its existance in 2013
any unauthprozed pilot flying over Area 51 (37 by 40 km)is court martial, dishonorable discharge and time in prison
5. No TV and radio in the area, bowling and tennis court
US military were going to provide costumes, personnel and equipment for the movie Independece day but pulled out due to mention of Area 51 in the script


According to the Air Force, the facility’s purpose is for “the testing of technologies and systems training for operations critical to the effectiveness of U.S. military forces and the security of the United States.” All specifics regarding the facility and the projects housed there are classified. What is known is the Air Force, the CIA and Lockheed have used the base as a staging ground for test flights of experimental, secret aircraft, also known as black aircraft. The base served as the development and testing facility for cutting edge aircraft technology from the U-2 spy plane to the F-117A Stealth Fighter.


June 24, 1947, was the day the term flying saucer entered the American vocabulary. That was the day Kenneth Arnold reported sighting a UFO while piloting his private plane over Washington state. He said the object flew like a saucer would if you skipped it across the water, and the flying saucer was born. On July 8, 1947, Roswell Army Air Field issued a press release written by General William “Butch” Blanchard, stating they had recovered the remains of an unidentified flying object. The Army quickly retracted the statement, but not before it ran in several papers. According to the Army, it was not a flying disc at all, but a weather balloon. Years later, declassified documents said that the object recovered at Roswell was actually a balloon created for a surveillance program called Project Mogul. The weather balloon story was a cover for this secret project. Of course, UFO believers say that the spy balloon story is also a cover, and that the Army really did recover an alien craft.Reverse Engineering at Area 51

In 1987, a man named Robert Lazar shocked the world when he went on television claiming to have been part of an operation that worked on alien technology. Robert Lazar said that the government has possession of at least nine alien spacecraft at a base called S-4, which is not far from Groom Lake. The facility even had posters showing a UFO levitating several feet above the ground with the caption “They’re Here!” EG&G hired him to help reverse engineer the technology in the alien craft for use in U.S. military vehicles and power production. He discovered a rusty, heavy substance he called “Element 115” that powered the alien spacecraft. Skeptics have thoroughly investigated as many of Lazar’s statements as they can, and many of them appear to be false. For example, Lazar says he holds Masters degrees from CalTech and MIT, but there’s no evidence he ever attended either university. Lazar says this is because the government is actively trying to erase his existence to discredit him. Skeptics believe Lazar is merely fabricating the entire story, and point out that it’s a monumental task to erase someone’s identity — they would have to remove Lazar’s name in everything from official documents to school yearbooks. Even so, Lazar’s statements inspired an explosion of interest in UFOs and Area 51.

The following is a time line beginning soon after Area 51’s construction:

1957 – The AEC distributes “Background Information on Nevada Nuclear Tests” to the press. The booklet describes a small base at Groom Lake called the Watertown Project. The booklet claimed the facility was part of a project to study weather.
1961 – The restricted airspace expands upwards, but not outwards — it measures five by nine nautical miles in size, but extends up to space and is designated R-4808. A year later, the Department of the Air Force expands the space again, but this time the perimeter grows to 22 by 20 nautical miles. This forms the “Groom Box,” or just “the Box,” as it is known today. No flights, whether commercial or military, are allowed in the restricted space (except the test flights from the base itself).
1962 – The first A-12 arrives at Groom Lake. The first test flight takes place two months after the aircraft’s arrival to the base. CIA pilots arrive at the base nearly a year later to begin flight training.
1967 – The first Mig 21, a Soviet aircraft, arrives at Groom Lake. Officials name the testing program of Mig aircraft “Have Donut.” Some pilots begin to call the restricted air space above Groom Lake “Red Square.”
f117 stealth fighter
The F117-A Nighthawk Stealth Fighter
1977 – Years before the public became aware of the Stealth Fighter, the first F117 prototype arrives at Area 51. It’s called the “Have Blue.” That same year, the United States Geological Survey takes an aerial photo of the base. The photo appears in numerous publications and is available until 1994, when the government withdraws it from release.
1982 – The first flight of the vehicle known as “Tacit Blue” takes place at Groom Lake. Like the F-117A, Tacit Blue is a stealth vehicle.
1984 – The base petitions for an additional 89,000 acres of land to increase the size of restricted space around the facility. Guards had previously discouraged the public from entering this area before it was officially withdrawn, raising concern and criticism from locals and tourists. The request is ratified by Congress three years later.
1988 – A Soviet satellite photographs Area 51. “Popular Science” runs the photograph, giving most U.S. citizens their first chance to glimpse the secret base. That same year, Robert Frost, a civilian employee at Area 51, dies. An autopsy shows that his body contained high levels of dangerous chemicals like dioxin, trichloroethylene and dibenzofuran. His widow, Helen, files a lawsuit against several government officials, claiming her husband died as a result of exposure to dangerous chemicals.
1989 – Robert Lazar appears on television and claims to have worked on reverse engineering alien technology at a site not far from Groom Lake.
1995 – Area 51 acquires two locations popular with tourists and curious locals. Freedom Ridge and White Sides Peak. President Clinton signs an executive order exempting Area 51 from legislation and investigation in order to preserve national security.
1996 – Nevada names Route 375, formerly known as the “loneliest highway in America,” the “Extraterrestrial Highway.” Skeptics around the world groan in unison.
1997 – Area 51 is declassified, though all operations at the facility are still kept secret.
2007 – It appears that crews are building a new hangar, much larger than the existing hangar. One Web site claims the hangar’s size to be 200 by 500 feet and 100 feet tall



Former Area 51 scientist claims aliens, UFOs exist. Pictures shown as proof
 Boyd Bushman
My references for the web site
http://www.exploringlifesmysteries.com/area-51-facts/


http://www.darkgovernment.com/news/area-51/


https://www.conspiracies.net/area-51-conspiracy-theories/


http://www.techtimes.com/articles/19013/20141030/former-area-51-scientist-claims-aliens-ufos-exist-shows-pictures-as-proof-video.htm


http://www.livescience.com/23514-area-51.html